Christopher C. Petro
petro@cpetro.us <mailto:petro@cpetro.us>
720-285-5121
Operations, Engineering, Security, Systems Archeology 
  and Process Anthropology

*Employment History*

*March 2014 to Present: Teksystems/Comcast Inc., Contract Senior Linux
Administrator*

Assisted the team managing of Comcast's IP based Content Distribution
Networks. Responsibilities include deploying and managing servers
(Centos 6.x on HP and Dell hardware) using puppet, writing and fixing
scripts(bash, Perl, Python), Troubleshooting Traffic Control (a Comcast
written open source control plane for Apache Traffic server), problems
on the CDN, and Apache Traffic Server. Also provided bug fixes and
feature enhancements in Perl Traffic Control. Assist in managing the
development environment, as well as budgeting and ordering of new
equipment.

*July 2013 to Dec 2013: Robert Half Technologies/Viasat, Contract Senior
Linux Administrator*

Contracted to provide Senior Linux Administration, specific tasks
include server provisioning with Cobbler, installation with kickstart
and configuration management with Puppet and automation with Python and
Bash scripting as well as process documentation.

*November 2010 to December 2012: Raytheon IIS, Senior Technologist I*

Provided System Administration (Unix, Red Hat Linux variants, etc.) in
Alice Springs, AU to the O&M organization (about 7 months) and to an R&D
lab (17 months). Responsible for full life-cycle support on HP
(primarily DL3x0), SGI (Altrix, UV100 and UV1000) and related network
and SAN equipment. Provided support to researchers and analysts.
  * Worked with site security on integrating a new firewall and security
    audits.
  * Assisted with budgeting and resource purchase prioritization
  * Worked with multinational team and coordinated between organizations
    on three continents.

*March 2010 to July 2010: Vendio Services, Inc. Contract Linux/Unix
  Systems Administration *
Worked with the existing Systems Administration team to provide
operational coverage, monitoring and light systems administration and
archeology support during a transitional period.

*November 08 to November 09: /Raytheon/ Intl. Sup Co., Senior
  Technologist II (Baghdad, Iraq)*
Worked as part of a team of technicians installing and supporting VMWare
ESX, Server and Virtual Center at over 9 sites around Iraq for the US
Military (Centcom).

*September 07 to November 08: Consulting and Contracting*
Provided support for VMWare's ESX/Virtual Infrastructure to Single Point
  Of Contact.
Provided Linux, Unix, and VMWare/Virtualization support to Saratoga Data
  Systems.

*January 06 to August 07: VMWare, Inc.; Technical Support Engineer*
Provided first and second level product support for VMWare's software
products including ESX, Virtual Infrastructure, Virtual Center, VMWare
Server and Workstation.

*November 04 to November 05: Contractor*
May 05 to November. 05, Technical Consultant with Taos, clients include
Amgen and SETI.
November 04 to March 05, Contract position assisting Electronic Arts in
a Solaris to Linux migration.

*June '00 to September '04: Vendio Services Inc. Senior Systems
Administrator, Team lead;*
Team lead in the operations group responsible for system design,
installation, monitoring and maintenance of the AuctionaWatch.com and
Vendio.com platforms. Responsibilities include project planning,
security, general Unix/Linux Administration and managing day to day
tasks of a small team.
  * Helped reduce operating expenses from over $350,000 a month to
    approx. $40,000 a month while increasing availability and total
    traffic.
  * Mentored and provided leadership to junior employees. 

*Technical Synopsis*

Experience working in a 24×7 and “Mission Critical” operations
environments ranging from Silicon Valley startups to DoD data centers
and research labs. with the majority of the experience being with Linux
based systems (Predominately Red Hat derived systems and Debian/Ubuntu)
VMWare ESX. Solaris, MacOS X, FreeBSD and OpenBSD are also in the skill
matrix.

Several years experience in running small to mid-sized (5 to 200 server)
Internet sites, as well as some experience large sites (5k servers) and
multi-site networks, internal IT and help desk/Technical Support.
Experience with project planning and management.

Worked with switches including the Cisco Catalyst and Nexus lines, most
of the experience is in vlan/switchport configuration and troubleshooting.

Experience in implementation and maintenance of VMWare's enterprise
virtualization products.

Some related experience with various SANs (EMC, HP, NetApp), mostly
troubleshooting
with VMWare.

Over 20 years experience with a wide variety of server and desktop
hardware ranging including SUN and SGI midrange and workstation
hardware, HP and Dell servers, embedded level hardware and HPC hardware
like the SGI Altix.

Experience in security hardening and risk management, both in civilian
and DoD settings.

Experience with many layer four and five network protocols, including
SMTP (E-Mail) using Sendmail, Postfix, Exim & Zimbra. HTTP (Web servers)
using Apache. Experienced in maintaining DNS servers using BIND and Qip.
On the file-server front, experience with NFS, and SAMBA (Unix SMB
filesharing software) as well as exposure to Network Appliances' NetApp.
Experience with NIS and LDAP. Utilized Linux and OpenBSD to implement
Proxies, Caching Web Proxies (with Squid) and firewalls (Linux's IP
Tables and Secure Computing's Sidewinder). Implemented a network
monitoring system for over 200 servers with Netsaint (Now called
Nagios), including writing Plugins. Experience with both Hardware &
Software RAID and LVM on Linux. Implemented various archive, backup and
DR strategies—including the use of Veritas NetBackup, SystemImager.
Created Kickstart install servers and configurations.

Experience administrating both Mysql and PostgreSQL, including some
limited database development, as well as exposure to Oracle.

Proficient in BASH and Python scripting. Limited Perl, PHP and C/C++,
Considerable experience building software, both from packages and from
source code. Some experience with Puppet, Cobbler and similar technologies.


*Clearances*
TS/SCI (expired)

*Certifications*
CISSP
CompTIA: A+, Net+, Security+

VMWare: VCP 2.5 and 3.0

*Education*
*School of the Art Institute of Chicago; '92 to '95*
Earned a Bachelors of Fine Arts. Studies focused on Graphic Design and
Art & Technology.

*University of Missouri at Columbia; '89 to '92*
Studies focused on Philosophy and English.
